# Skypath

## Backend Overall Notes
* Flake8 is used for enforcing style and consistency
* There is a typo in "JFK" for flight SP995, I have decided to rename this to the corrected version instead of throwing a warning and not logging this.We may want to throw a warning instead, but I currently prefer just making the change since this is a small dataset and having one more available flight may affect test cases.
* For constants, we currently have a static file that is checked into the repo that contains all the constants (i.e. max stops, etc). This being a file checked into the main repo is fine for a project but if this service scales and there are lengthy CI/CD processess/steps, we may instead want to have the config be checked into a separate repo to decouple the config with the code changes. For now since this is fine but this is a tradeoff to be made in the future.


### Data loader decisions and assumptions
Assumptions:
1. Data cleanliness: I have unit tests to check that the data provided is reasonably accurate to the json file provided. This loader does not anticipate for cases where, for example, if certain flights have airports with different casing. I have added guards for scenarios around missing/malformed required fields, invalid/unparseable dates, impossible flights (going back in time), and empty datasets, but I believe that having valid cases and data will be more interesting instead of having pedantic verification/tests.  

Decisions:
1. In the happy case unit tests, we load the full dataset directly from the json file. This is a decision made right now to ensure tests are hermetic and isolated. This is at the cost of time to load/parse the json files, but because the dataset file is small, this is not be a concern right now. If datasets get bigger, then we will revisit this based on what the requirements of the unit tests are.
2. In the edge case unit tests, instead of loading in the entire json file, we create temporary json fixtures with the invalid/custom flight and ensure that the data loader skips the exceptions without crashing. 
3. I have added a test case/restraint for uniqueness on the "flightNumber" key. Any two flights should not have the same flight number, in the event of a duplicate, only the first flight is loaded, the rest are logged as warning during json loading.

### Search Algorithm decisions and assumptions
Assumptions:
1. Data loader's assumptions of clean data are enforced (i.e. no duplicate flights) - currently, we do not do any post-processing except a sort on the itinerary's duration. Also, for cost-oriented travellers, we may want to have a parameter for the sort key, as they may care more for optimizing cost, but that is outside the scope, as the spec mentions to sort by total travel time.

Decisions/Improvements:
1. Search algorithm - DFS over BFS:  Since we're currently not concerned with finding only the shortest flights, DFS will explore all the options up to the maximum configured 2 stops. We perform a sort once all the valid itineraries are generated. Complexity is a concern if this is a production environment because the complexity would be O(f^3), where f is the number of outbound flights at an airport. However, as a naive first approach, this currently works because the dataset is small. Realistically, we should not do this brute force approach for a production algorithm but because the flight set is constant and small, this is manageable for now but should not be used in a real setting. For some optimizations on a production algorithm, I would look more into Djikstra/A* algorithms to gather the "best" itineraries, as there would be real time and cost bounds that can be used as edge weights for computing/weighing the best itineraries. Additionally, another optimization would be to prune some flight candidates earlier on with time or cost-bounding instead of computing every single possibility exhaustively.
2. Datastore choice - Flights json in memory: Realistically we should never keep the datastores in memory if it's real data. However, since this is a small static dataset, this is fine for now but can/should be saved in a datastore in production. In that production example, here are some high level thoughts using CAP theorem. Partition tolerance is an assumption with scalable systems, so we have to decide between strong consistency and high availability. I believe that depending on the service, we can enforce the correct property depending on the context. For the checkout flow (out of scope), we should have strong consistency in the checkout flow to ensure that we do not accidentally double-book on a specific seat or sell a ticket for a flight that has been sold out. Conversely, high availability for the searching flow to provide the best user experience (low availability would be a nightmare customer experience and will easily sink satisfaction and conversion rate). With these two working in conjunction, in the unfortunate event of a user seeing a flight (high availability) but when they go to checkout, it has already been sold out, we would float an exception to the user and suggest other flights that are still available (strong consistency). This is product behaviour, so while this is my perspective from an engineer, it is entirely possible that we believe in different core principles. Furthermore, depending on local legal or regulatory laws, if we are contractually obligated to charge the price that users see from the site/algorithm, we may want to prioritize consistency to ensure that we are computing the right prices with available flights first over high availability, where the underlying flights may be already sold-out.



### Flask endpoint decisions and assumptions
Assumptions:
1. Traffic is valid: we do not have any auth right now so all traffic is processed, we can put in some auth to prevent bots or bad actors and to provide a level of rate-limiting. Not in scope, so we only return a 400 if the input is malformed as a backend guardrail against injection from frontend even if the user gets past frontend validations.
2. CORS: In production, allowing all origin in CORS is a huge security issue. However for ease of testing, I'm choosing to ease on this aspect. 

Decisions/Improvements:
1. Unwrapped/naked Exceptions: In production, we probably want to wrap the existing exceptions with traces/output to be logged for debugging purposes. For this task we do not log anything and we just return the `400` error code with a simple message indicating the reason behind the failed validation.
2. Dataload time: Currently we load and process the data at app startup instead of at query-time. This is so that if we have a poisoned pill/bad data loading, we will find out at the time that the service spins up instead of at request time. Also, having built the graph and processed the data before requests are served, we ensure that the requests are fast and users do not have to wait for the computing overhead. 
3. Infra improvements: Currently with flask dev server, it is single threaded, so to handle more production traffic, we can use uWSGI or gunicorn. For proxying, load balancing and cache, I've used nginx previously so I would probably use that unless the team has something better built-in house or an existing solution.
